# CZ3006 Net Centric Computing Assignments

# Assignment 1

## Implementation of a Sliding Window Protocol

### Objectives
This assignment aims to enhance students' understanding of the network protocol hierarchy
and flow control and error control techniques by implementing a sliding window protocol in a simulated communication network system. The programming language will be Java.

### Task

Both the Network Simulator and Sliding Window Environment components have been
implemented and supplied. Your task is to implement the Sliding Window Protocol component
(i.e., the data link-layer) of the simulated communication system. This component must
implement all the features in the sliding window protocol specified in Fig.3-19 of Section 3.4 of the text book (provided together with this Lab Manual on NTULearn), including:
1. Full-duplex data communication.
2. In-order delivery of packets to the network-layer.
3. Selective repeat retransmission strategy.
4. Synchronization with the network-layer by granting credits.
5. Negative acknowledgement.
6. Separate acknowledgment when the reverse traffic is light or none.
Your implementation must be able to withstand quality level 3 of the Network Simulator
component.

### Testing and Running the System
To run your code in the simulated communicated system, you should first compile your java
code by typing:

javac SWP.java

Then the following steps should be followed to run the system:
1. start the Network Simulator (NetSim) component in one window by typing:
 java NetSim n, where n is the quality level and may take a value 0, 1, 2, or 3.
2. start the first Virtural Machine (VMach) component in another separate window by
typing:
 java VMach 1, where 1 is the identifier of this VMach.
3. start the second Virtural Machine (VMach) component in the third separate window
by typing:
 java VMach 2, where 2 is the identifier of this VMach.
To terminate the whole system at the end or middle of the execution, you may simply type
control-c in anyone of the three windows.
After each run of the system, two output text files ─ receive_file_1.txt and
receive_file_2.txt ─ will be automatically generated, with receive_file_1.txt being
generated by VMach 1 and containing the texts received from VMach 2, and
receive_file_2.txt being generated by VMach 2 and containing the texts received from VMach 1. If the sliding window protocol is correctly implemented, the contents in
receive_file_1.txt should be the same as send_file_2.txt, and the contents in
receive_file_2.txt should be the same as send_file_1.txt.

# Assignment 2

## Web Application using Javascript and PHP

### Objectives
This assignment aims to enhance students' understanding of Web client-side
programming techniques using JavaScript and Web server-side programming
techniques using PHP. Particularly, after this assignment, students should learn:
1. How are HTML elements and attributes represented in the JavaScript binding to
DOM (Document Object Model)?
2. How can an event handler be associated with an event generated by a specific
HTML element in the DOM event model?
3. How to access and manipulate HTML document elements from JavaScript?
4. How do HTML documents at the client side send information to web servers?
How do server-side programs receive the information?
5. How do server-side programs access files?
6. How do server-side programs generate HTML documents and send them to the
client side?

### Tasks

1. Write an HTML document to create a form that contains:
A text box to collect the user’s name.
Three text boxes for the user to key in the numbers of apples (69 cents each),
oranges (59 cents each), and bananas (39 cents each) to purchase respectively.
Whenever the user’s input in any of these text boxes changes, the validity of the
input is checked at the client side using JavaScript. A valid input is defined as a
sequence of one or more digits. If the input is not valid, an alert message is
produced and the user is asked to input again.
A text box showing the total cost of the user’s order. The purpose of this text box
is to show the total cost of order to the user during his selection. This text box is
not for user’s input, so it should be blurred whenever it acquires focus.
Whenever the user’s input in any of the above three text boxes changes, if the
input is not valid, this text box should display “NaN”, and if the input is valid,
the total cost of the user’s order is recalculated and displayed in this text box.
This calculation is to be done completely at the client side using JavaScript.
A collection of three radio buttons that are labeled as Visa, MasterCard and
Discover. This is for the user to input his payment method.
A Submit button. On completing the form, the user clicks this button to submit
his order to the web server.

2. Write a server-side PHP program that receives the user’s order when the Submit
button on the above HTML document is clicked. On receiving the order, the
server-side PHP program computes the total cost of the user’s order and returns
an HTML document to the user as a receipt. The receipt should specify the user’s
name, what are ordered and the payment method in the form of a table. In
addition, the server-side PHP program must also update a file named “order.txt”
stored on the web server to reflect the new order. The file records the total
numbers of apples, oranges and bananas ordered by all users so far in the
following format:
Total number of apples: 12
Total number of oranges: 23
Total number of bananas: 35